doc/devices/fock.rst, before:

The Fock device
===============

Pennylane's Fock device gives access to
`Strawberry Field's Fock state simulator backend <https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/api/strawberryfields.backends.FockBackend.html>`_.
This simulator represents quantum states in the Fock basis
:math:`\left| 0 \right>, \left| 1 \right>, \left| 2 \right>, \dots, \left| \mathrm{D -1} \right>`,
where :math:`D` is the user-given value for ``cutoff_dim`` that limits the dimension of the Hilbert space.

The advantage of this representation is that *any* continuous-variable operation can be represented. However,
the **simulations are approximations**, whose accuracy increases with the cutoff dimension.

.. warning::

    It is often useful to keep track of the normalization of a quantum state during optimization, to make sure
    the circuit does not "learn" to push its parameters into a regime where the simulation is vastly inaccurate.

.. note::

    For :math:`M` modes or wires and a cutoff dimension of :math:`D`, the Fock simulator needs to keep track of
    at least :math:`M^D` values. Hence, the simulation time and required memory grows much faster with the number of modes than in
    qubit-based simulators.

Usage
~~~~~

You can instantiate the Fock device in PennyLane as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    dev = qml.device('strawberryfields.fock', wires=2, cutoff_dim=10)

The device can then be used just like other devices for the definition and evaluation of QNodes within PennyLane.

For instance, the following simple example defines a :code:`quantum_function` circuit that first displaces
the vacuum state, applies a beamsplitter, and then returns the photon number expectation.
This function is then converted into a QNode which is placed on the :code:`strawberryfields.fock` device:

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def quantum_function(x, theta):
        qml.Displacement(x, 0, wires=0)
        qml.Beamsplitter(theta, 0, wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.NumberOperator(0))

We can evaluate the QNode for arbitrary values of the circuit parameters:

>>> quantum_function(1., 0.543)
0.7330132578095255

We can also evaluate the derivative with respect to any parameter(s):

>>> dqfunc = qml.grad(quantum_function, argnum=0)
>>> dqfunc(1., 0.543)
1.4660265156190515

The continuous-variable QNodes available via Strawberry Fields can also be combined with qubit-based QNodes
and classical nodes to build up a `hybrid computational model <https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_plugins_hybrid.html>`_.
Such hybrid models can be optimized using
the built-in optimizers provided by PennyLane.

Device options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Strawberry Fields Fock device accepts additional arguments beyond the PennyLane default device arguments.

``cutoff_dim``
	the Fock basis truncation when applying quantum operations

``hbar=2``
	The convention chosen in the canonical commutation relation :math:`[x, p] = i \hbar`.
	Default value is :math:`\hbar=2`.

``shots=None``
	The number of circuit evaluations/random samples used to estimate expectation values of observables.
	The default value of ``None`` means that the exact expectation value is returned.

    If shots is a positive integer or a list of integers, the Fock device calculates the variance of
    the expectation value(s), and use the `Berry-Esseen theorem
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berry%E2%80%93Esseen_theorem>`_ to estimate the sampled
    expectation value.

Supported operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Strawberry Fields Fock device supports all continuous-variable (CV) operations and observables
provided by PennyLane, including both Gaussian and non-Gaussian operations.

**Supported operations:**

.. raw:: html

    <div class="summary-table">

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:

    ~pennylane.Beamsplitter
    ~pennylane.CatState
    ~pennylane.CoherentState
    ~pennylane.ControlledAddition
    ~pennylane.ControlledPhase
    ~pennylane.CrossKerr
    ~pennylane.CubicPhase
    ~pennylane.DisplacedSqueezedState
    ~pennylane.Displacement
    ~pennylane.FockDensityMatrix
    ~pennylane.FockState
    ~pennylane.FockStateVector
    ~pennylane.GaussianState
    ~pennylane.Interferometer
    ~pennylane.Kerr
    ~pennylane.QuadraticPhase
    ~pennylane.Rotation
    ~pennylane.SqueezedState
    ~pennylane.Squeezing
    ~pennylane.ThermalState
    ~pennylane.TwoModeSqueezing

.. raw:: html

    </div>

**Supported observables:**

.. raw:: html

    <div class="summary-table">

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:

    ~pennylane.Identity
    ~pennylane.NumberOperator
    ~pennylane.TensorN
    ~pennylane.X
    ~pennylane.P
    ~pennylane.QuadOperator
    ~pennylane.PolyXP
    ~pennylane.TensorN

.. raw:: html

    </div>

Commit message:

Add notes to the docs about the unsupported measurements for devices (#76)
* add notes for each device about the supported measurement types

* remove test for backprop and shots!=None

* add note to TF device too

* device names

doc/devices/fock.rst, after:

The Fock device
===============

Pennylane's Fock device gives access to
`Strawberry Field's Fock state simulator backend <https://strawberryfields.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/api/strawberryfields.backends.FockBackend.html>`_.
This simulator represents quantum states in the Fock basis
:math:`\left| 0 \right>, \left| 1 \right>, \left| 2 \right>, \dots, \left| \mathrm{D -1} \right>`,
where :math:`D` is the user-given value for ``cutoff_dim`` that limits the dimension of the Hilbert space.

The advantage of this representation is that *any* continuous-variable operation can be represented. However,
the **simulations are approximations**, whose accuracy increases with the cutoff dimension.

.. warning::

    It is often useful to keep track of the normalization of a quantum state during optimization, to make sure
    the circuit does not "learn" to push its parameters into a regime where the simulation is vastly inaccurate.

.. note::

    For :math:`M` modes or wires and a cutoff dimension of :math:`D`, the Fock simulator needs to keep track of
    at least :math:`M^D` values. Hence, the simulation time and required memory grows much faster with the number of modes than in
    qubit-based simulators.

Usage
~~~~~

You can instantiate the Fock device in PennyLane as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    dev = qml.device('strawberryfields.fock', wires=2, cutoff_dim=10)

The device can then be used just like other devices for the definition and evaluation of QNodes within PennyLane.

For instance, the following simple example defines a :code:`quantum_function` circuit that first displaces
the vacuum state, applies a beamsplitter, and then returns the photon number expectation.
This function is then converted into a QNode which is placed on the :code:`strawberryfields.fock` device:

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def quantum_function(x, theta):
        qml.Displacement(x, 0, wires=0)
        qml.Beamsplitter(theta, 0, wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.NumberOperator(0))

We can evaluate the QNode for arbitrary values of the circuit parameters:

>>> quantum_function(1., 0.543)
0.7330132578095255

We can also evaluate the derivative with respect to any parameter(s):

>>> dqfunc = qml.grad(quantum_function, argnum=0)
>>> dqfunc(1., 0.543)
1.4660265156190515

.. note::

    The ``qml.state``, ``qml.sample`` and ``qml.density_matrix`` measurements
    are not supported on the ``strawberryfields.fock`` device.


The continuous-variable QNodes available via Strawberry Fields can also be combined with qubit-based QNodes
and classical nodes to build up a `hybrid computational model <https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_plugins_hybrid.html>`_.
Such hybrid models can be optimized using
the built-in optimizers provided by PennyLane.

Device options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Strawberry Fields Fock device accepts additional arguments beyond the PennyLane default device arguments.

``cutoff_dim``
	the Fock basis truncation when applying quantum operations

``hbar=2``
	The convention chosen in the canonical commutation relation :math:`[x, p] = i \hbar`.
	Default value is :math:`\hbar=2`.

``shots=None``
	The number of circuit evaluations/random samples used to estimate expectation values of observables.
	The default value of ``None`` means that the exact expectation value is returned.

    If shots is a positive integer or a list of integers, the Fock device calculates the variance of
    the expectation value(s), and use the `Berry-Esseen theorem
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berry%E2%80%93Esseen_theorem>`_ to estimate the sampled
    expectation value.

Supported operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Strawberry Fields Fock device supports all continuous-variable (CV) operations and observables
provided by PennyLane, including both Gaussian and non-Gaussian operations.

**Supported operations:**

.. raw:: html

    <div class="summary-table">

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:

    ~pennylane.Beamsplitter
    ~pennylane.CatState
    ~pennylane.CoherentState
    ~pennylane.ControlledAddition
    ~pennylane.ControlledPhase
    ~pennylane.CrossKerr
    ~pennylane.CubicPhase
    ~pennylane.DisplacedSqueezedState
    ~pennylane.Displacement
    ~pennylane.FockDensityMatrix
    ~pennylane.FockState
    ~pennylane.FockStateVector
    ~pennylane.GaussianState
    ~pennylane.Interferometer
    ~pennylane.Kerr
    ~pennylane.QuadraticPhase
    ~pennylane.Rotation
    ~pennylane.SqueezedState
    ~pennylane.Squeezing
    ~pennylane.ThermalState
    ~pennylane.TwoModeSqueezing

.. raw:: html

    </div>

**Supported observables:**

.. raw:: html

    <div class="summary-table">

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:

    ~pennylane.Identity
    ~pennylane.NumberOperator
    ~pennylane.TensorN
    ~pennylane.X
    ~pennylane.P
    ~pennylane.QuadOperator
    ~pennylane.PolyXP
    ~pennylane.TensorN

.. raw:: html

    </div>
