doc/installing.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Setup
############


Dependencies
============

.. highlight:: bash

OpenQML-SF requires the following libraries be installed:

* `Python <http://python.org/>`_ >=3.5

as well as the following Python packages:

* `OpenQML <http://networkx.github.io/>`_
* `StrawberryFields <https://www.tensorflow.org/>`_


If you currently do not have Python 3 installed, we recommend `Anaconda for Python 3 <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_, a distributed version of Python packaged for scientific computation.


Installation
============

Installation of OpenQML, as well as all required Python packages mentioned above, can be installed via ``pip``:
::

   	$ python -m pip install openqml-sf


Make sure you are using the Python 3 version of pip.

Alternatively, you can install OpenQML from the source code by navigating to the top directory and running
::

	$ python setup.py install


Software tests
==============

To ensure that OpenQML is working correctly after installation, the test suite can be run by navigating to the source code folder and running
::

	$ make test


Documentation
=============

To build the HTML documentation, go to the top-level directory and run
::

  $ make docs

The documentation can then be found in the :file:`doc/_build/html/` directory.

Commit message:

renamed openqml-sf to pennylane-sf

doc/installing.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Setup
############


Dependencies
============

.. highlight:: bash

PennyLane-SF requires the following libraries be installed:

* `Python <http://python.org/>`_ >=3.5

as well as the following Python packages:

* `PennyLane <http://networkx.github.io/>`_
* `StrawberryFields <https://www.tensorflow.org/>`_


If you currently do not have Python 3 installed, we recommend `Anaconda for Python 3 <https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_, a distributed version of Python packaged for scientific computation.


Installation
============

Installation of PennyLane, as well as all required Python packages mentioned above, can be installed via ``pip``:
::

   	$ python -m pip install pennylane-sf


Make sure you are using the Python 3 version of pip.

Alternatively, you can install PennyLane from the source code by navigating to the top directory and running
::

	$ python setup.py install


Software tests
==============

To ensure that PennyLane is working correctly after installation, the test suite can be run by navigating to the source code folder and running
::

	$ make test


Documentation
=============

To build the HTML documentation, go to the top-level directory and run
::

  $ make docs

The documentation can then be found in the :file:`doc/_build/html/` directory.
